### Final project essay

__Question1: Now that you have seen many full research projects saved online as GitHub repositories do you plan to use GitHub for your future projects as a way to store code and data in the cloud and to share your progress with others?__

Definitely!  GitHub is an incredible tool that I am glad that I became familiar with. I really like its transparency of what others are doing and what we can learn from each other. I think that Github broadens research possibilities and encourages collaboration around the world.

__Question2:Did you project accomplish the goals that you set out for yourself in your proposal? If not, why? What was the hardest problem in your project that were able to overcome? What, if any, was a problem that you were unable to overcome in your project within the given time?__

Though I made a significant progress on the project, I encountered several issues that I didn’t expect when I started. However, over the course of the semester, I’ve learned some ways to sort out issues on my own, I feel more confident that I can continue learning after this course. The hardest problem in my project was formatting real data files (geno format) into an appropriate formats to be analyzed using machine learning clustering methods.  I was able to format a real geno format by transposing the array, applying mean values to the missing data, standardizing the dataset and plotting 2D and 3D scatter plots. However, it is still unclear to me what those performance scores mean (please see the step #9 in `mlclusters_nb_v1.ipynb`). So I set out to generate a fake geno format file including 9s (missing data) where I know exactly how it clusters, and also able to create “ground truth labels” so I can use it to test clustering performance. I am also currently working on comparing PCA and machine learning clustering methods (please see `Missing_data.ipynb`), however, I ran out of time to complete it. I also would like to compare the machine learning clustering methods with [STRUCTURE](https://web.stanford.edu/group/pritchardlab/structure.html) or [TreeMix](https://code.google.com/archive/p/treemix/) methods. I will continue working on this project over the summer months. 

__Question3: Do you feel that you've learned the skills necessary perform data analysis in Python, and to write your own program or pipeline for data analysis? What skills do you think you need to work on further, and where would you look to find more information about learning these skills?__

I definitely feel that I’ve learned the skills necessary to perform some data analysis in Python, but I would like to get more experience writing code from working on projects.  I definitely learn better when I try to solve problems on my own (rather than just reading textbooks…). I would love to learn more scikit-learn, scipy, numpy, momi2, and other Python programs that I learned through looking at fellow students projects. I will learn those programs by visiting their websites and GitHubs, and trying some of their examples on Jupyter notebooks. Thank you Deren and Patrick for the great course.